New pages: htmloptionscollection (#35982)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/api/htmloptionscollection/remove/index.md

---
title: "HTMLOptionsCollection: remove() method"
short-title: remove()
slug: Web/API/HTMLOptionsCollection/remove
page-type: web-api-instance-method
browser-compat: api.HTMLOptionsCollection.remove
---

{{ APIRef("HTML DOM") }}

> The **`remove()`** method of the {{DOMxRef("HTMLOptionsCollection")}} interface removes the {{HTMLelement("option")}} element specified by the index from the ancestor {HTMLelement("select")}} element.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **`remove()`** method of the {{DOMxRef("HTMLOptionsCollection")}} interface removes the {{HTMLelement("option")}} element specified by the index from this collection.
```

## Syntax

```js-nolint
remove(index)
```

### Parameters

- `index`
  - : A zero-based integer for the index of the {{ domxref("HTMLOptionElement") }} in the {{DOMxRef("HTMLOptionsCollection")}}. If the index is not found the method has no effect.

### Return value

None ({{jsxref("undefined")}}).

## Examples

```js
const optionList = document.querySelector("select").options;

> const listLength = optionList.length;
> optionList.remove(length - 1); // removes the last item
> optionList.remove(optionList[0]); // removes the first item

Reviewer: ```suggestion
const listLength = optionList.length;
optionList.remove(listLength - 1); // removes the last item
optionList.remove(0); // removes the first item
```
